# CSS Position

Tags: #tag1 #tag2 #tag3

**Inspired by**
- [Layout](20220517151424_css-layout.md)

**Links**
- [Position Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position) 
- [Position Code](position/index.html)

## Content


If one block-level element sits inside another block-level element then the outer box is known as the containing or parent element.

#### Types of positioning

- A positioned element is an element whose computed position value is either relative, absolute, fixed, or sticky. (In other words, it's anything except static.)
- A relatively positioned element is an element whose computed position value is relative. The top and bottom properties specify the vertical offset from its normal position; the left and right properties specify the horizontal offset.
- An absolutely positioned element is an element whose computed position value is absolute or fixed. The top, right, bottom, and left properties specify offsets from the edges of the element's containing block. 
- A stickily positioned element is an element whose computed position value is sticky. It's treated as relatively positioned until its containing block crosses a specified threshold (such as setting top to value other than auto) within its flow root (or the container it scrolls within), at which point it is treated as "stuck" until meeting the opposite edge of its containing block.

#### Positioning flow

**Normal flow:** all blocks within the same block-level element are known as the "parent" of the other blocks.
  
```css
.default{
  position: static;
}

.relative-to-parent{
  position: relative;
  float: 100px;
}
```

**Out flow:** all blocks within the same block-level element are known as the "child" of the other blocks.
  
```css
.bar{
  position: absoulte;
}
.box{
  position: fixed;
}
.header{
  position: sticky;
}
```

#### Position static

The element is positioned according to the [normal flow](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position#formal_definition) of the document. It's the initial value that you apply to an element's position property. It's discrete and stay in the normal flow.

#### Position relative 

[Relatively positioned](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position#relative_positioning) elements are offset a given amount from their normal position within the document, but without the offset affecting other elements.

#### Position Absolute

Elements that are relatively positioned remain in the normal flow of the document. In contrast, an element that is [absolutely positioned](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position#absolute_positioning) is taken out of the flow; thus, other elements are positioned as if it did not exist. The absolutely positioned element is positioned relative to its nearest positioned ancestor

#### Position Fixed

[Fixed positioning](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position#fixed_positioning) is similar to absolute positioning, with the exception that the element's containing block is the initial containing block established by the viewport, unless any ancestor has transform.

#### Position Sticky

[Sticky positioning](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position#sticky_positioning) can be thought of as a hybrid of relative and fixed positioning. A stickily positioned element is treated as relatively positioned until it crosses a specified threshold, at which point it is treated as fixed until it reaches the boundary of its parent.

_This value always creates a new stacking context. Note that a sticky element "sticks" to its nearest ancestor that has a "scrolling mechanism"._