# The display property

Tags: #display #css

**Inspired by**
- [Basic](20220517145503_css-basic.md)

## Content

The main methods for achieving page layout in CSS all involve specifying values for the ```display``` property. This property allows us to change the default way something displays. Everything in normal flow has a default value for ```display```; i.e., a default way that elements are set to behave. For example, the fact that paragraphs in English display one below the other is because they are styled with ```display: block```. If you create a link around some text inside a paragraph, that link remains inline with the rest of the text, and doesn't break onto a new line. This is because the ```<a>``` element is display: inline by default.

In addition to being able to change the default presentation by turning an item from block to inline and vice versa, there are some more involved layout methods that start out as a value of ```display```. However, when using these you will generally need to invoke additional properties. The two values most important for our discussion of layout are ```display: flex``` and ```display: grid.```

- [Flexbox](#flexbox)
- [Grid](#grid)
- [Float](#float)
- Positioning
- Table layout
- Multiple-column layout

Each technique has its uses, advantages, and disadvantages. No technique is designed to be used in isolation. By understanding what each layout method is designed for you'll be in a good position to understand which method is most appropriate for each task.