# Links

Tags: #links #hyperlink

**Inspired by**
- [Properties](20220517145846_css-custom-property.md)
  
**Links**
- [Mozilla Links](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Styling_text/Styling_links#lets_look_at_some_links)

## Content

When styling links, it's important to understand how to make use of pseudo-classes to style their states effectively. It's also important to know how to style links for use in common interface features whose content varies, such as navigation menus and tabs. We'll look at both these topics in this article.

### Link states

The first thing to understand is the concept of link states — different states that links can exist in. These can be styled using different pseudo-classes:

- Link: A link that has a destination (i.e., not just a named anchor), styled using the :link pseudo class.
- Visited: A link that has already been visited (exists in the browser's history), styled using the :visited pseudo class.
- Hover: A link that is hovered over by a user's mouse pointer, styled using the :hover pseudo class.
- Focus: A link that is focused (e.g., moved to by a keyboard user using the Tab key or something similar, or programmatically focused using HTMLElement.focus()) — this is styled using the :focus pseudo class.
- Active: A link that is activated (e.g., clicked on), styled using the :active pseudo class.

**The default styles can be turned off/changed using the following CSS properties:**

- color for the text color.
- cursor for the mouse pointer style — you shouldn't turn this off unless you've got a very good reason.
- outline for the text outline. An outline is similar to a border. The only difference is that a border takes up space in the box and an outline doesn't; it just sits over the top of the background. The outline is a useful accessibility aid, so should not be removed without adding another method of indicating the focused link.

Now let's add some more information to get this styled properly:

```css
body {
  width: 300px;
  margin: 0 auto;
  font-size: 1.2rem;
  font-family: sans-serif;
}

p {
  line-height: 1.4;
}

a {
  outline: none;
  text-decoration: none;
  padding: 2px 1px 0;
}

a:link {
  color: #265301;
}

a:visited {
  color: #437A16;
}

a:focus {
  border-bottom: 1px solid;
  background: #BAE498;
}

a:hover {
  border-bottom: 1px solid;
  background: #CDFEAA;
}

a:active {
  background: #265301;
  color: #CDFEAA;
}

```
