# Values and units

Tags: #em #rem

**Links**
- [Sizing Code](sizing-values/index.html) 
- [CSS Sizing Medium](https://medium.com/@madhum86/css-font-sizing-pixels-vs-em-vs-rem-vs-percent-vs-viewport-units-b1485716afe7) 
- [CSS Values Mozilla](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Values_and_units)

## Content

The numeric type you will come across most frequently is <length>. For example 10px (pixels) or 30em. There are two types of lengths used in CSS — relative and absolute. It's important to know the difference in order to understand how big things will become.

### Absolute length units

The following are all absolute length units — they are not relative to anything else, and are generally considered to always be the same size.

- pixels are the most common unit of measurement in web design. They are used to describe the size of elements, the distance between elements, and the size of the page itself.

### Relative length units

Relative length units are relative to something else, perhaps the size of the parent element's font, or the size of the viewport. The benefit of using relative units is that with some careful planning you can make it so the size of text or other elements scales relative to everything else on the page.

- **em and rem** are the two relative lengths you are likely to encounter most frequently when sizing anything from boxes to text.
- **em** is relative to the font-size of the element and affect inherence values. We use only to make a difference between the font-size of the element and the font-size of the parent element.
- **rem** is relative to the root font-size of the document and affect inherence values. We use always to make a difference between the root font-size of the document and the font-size of the parent element.

**To recap, the em unit means "my parent element's font-size"** in the case of typography. The ```<li>``` elements inside the ```<ul>``` with a class of ems take their sizing from their parent. So each successive level of nesting gets progressively larger, as each has its font size set to 1.3em — 1.3 times its parent's font size.

**To recap, the rem unit means "The root element's font-size"**. (rem stands for "root em".) The ```<li>``` elements inside the ```<ul>``` with a class of rems take their sizing from the root element (```<html>```). This means that each successive level of nesting does not keep getting larger.

### Percentages units

The thing with percentages is that they are always set relative to some other value. For example, if you set an element's font-size as a percentage, it will be a percentage of the font-size of the element's parent. If you use a percentage for a width value, it will be a percentage of the width of the parent.