# Frankenstein Book

## Guide

- [Frankenstein Book](#frankenstein-book)
  - [Guide](#guide)
  - [Biography](#biography)
  - [Notes](#notes)
    - [Act 1](#act-1)
    - [Act 2](#act-2)
    - [Act 3](#act-3)
  - [Vocabulary](#vocabulary)

## Biography

**Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde** (16 October 1854 – 30 November 1900) was an Irish poet and playwright. He became one of the most popular playwrights in London in the early 1890s. The circumstances of his criminal conviction for [gross indecency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gross_indecency) for consensual [homosexual](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homosexual) acts in "one of the first celebrity trials", imprisonment, and early death from [meningitis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meningitis) at age 46.

Wilde's parents were [Anglo-Irish](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anglo-Irish) intellectuals in [Dublin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dublin). young Wilde learned to speak fluent French and German. At university, Wilde read [Greats](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literae_Humaniores#Greats); he demonstrated himself to be an exceptional classicist, first at [Trinity College Dublin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trinity_College_Dublin), then at [Oxford](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magdalen_College,_Oxford).

As a spokesman for aestheticism, he tried his hand at various literary activities: he published a book of poems, lectured in the United States and Canada on the new "English Renaissance in Art" and interior decoration, and then returned to London where he worked prolifically as a journalist.

At the turn of the 1890s, he refined his ideas about the supremacy of art in a series of dialogues and essays, and incorporated themes of decadence, duplicity, and beauty into what would be his only novel, *The Picture of Dorian Gray* (1890). The opportunity to construct aesthetic details precisely, and combine them with larger social themes, drew Wilde to write drama. He wrote *[Salome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salome_(play))* (1891) in French while in Paris but it was refused a licence for England due to an absolute prohibition on the portrayal of Biblical subjects on the English stage.

At the height of his fame and success, while *[The Importance of Being Earnest](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Importance_of_Being_Earnest)* (1895) was still being performed in London, Wilde prosecuted the [Marquess of Queensberry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Douglas,_9th_Marquess_of_Queensberry) for [criminal libel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defamation). The Marquess was the father of Wilde's lover, [Lord Alfred Douglas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lord_Alfred_Douglas).

After two more trials he was convicted and sentenced to two years' [hard labour](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hard_labour), the maximum penalty, and was jailed from 1895 to 1897. During his last year in prison, he wrote *[De Profundis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/De_Profundis_(letter))* (published posthumously in 1905), a long letter which discusses his spiritual journey through his trials, forming a dark counterpoint to his earlier philosophy of pleasure. On his release, he left immediately for France, and never returned to Ireland or Britain. There he wrote his last work, *[The Ballad of Reading Gaol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Ballad_of_Reading_Gaol)* (1898), a long poem commemorating the harsh rhythms of prison life.

## Notes

### Act 1

**The play opens in the morning room of Algernon Moncrieff’s** flat in the fashionable Mayfair section of **London’s West End.** As the curtain rises, Algernon’s butler, **Lane, is onstage laying out afternoon tea while Algernon**, offstage, **plays the piano badly**. Before long, the music stops and Algernon enters talking about his playing, but Lane says ironically that he didn’t feel it was “polite” to listen. **Algernon briefly defends his musicianship**, then turns to the matter of Lane’s preparations for tea. Algernon asks particularly about some cucumber sandwiches he has ordered for Lady Bracknell, his aunt, who is expected for tea along with her daughter, Gwendolen Fairfax, Algernon’s cousin. Lane produces the cucumber sandwiches, which Algernon begins to munch absentmindedly, casually remarking on an extremely inaccurate entry he’s noticed in the household books. He speculates aloud on why it is that champagne in bachelors’ homes always gets drunk by the servants. There follows some philosophical chat about the nature of marriage and the married state. **Then Algernon dismisses Lane and soliloquizes briefly on the moral duty of the servant class.**

Lane reenters and announces the arrival of Mr. Ernest Worthing, the play’s protagonist, who shortly will come to be known as Jack. **Algernon greets Jack with evident enthusiasm, asking whether business or pleasure has brought him to town. Jack says pleasure.** He notices the elaborate tea service and asks whom Algernon expects. When Algernon tells him Lady Bracknell and Gwendolen will be coming by, Jack is delighted. He confesses that he has come to town for the express purpose of proposing to Gwendolen. A brief debate follows as to whether this purpose constitutes “business” or “pleasure,” and in the course of it, Jack reaches for one of the cucumber sandwiches. Algernon reprimands him, saying that they have been ordered expressly for his aunt. Jack points out that Algernon has been eating them the whole time they’ve been talking. **Algernon argues that it’s appropriate for *him* to eat the sandwiches since Lady Bracknell is his aunt and suggests that Jack help himself to the bread and butter**, which has been ordered for Gwendolen. When Jack begins eating the bread and butter a bit too enthusiastically, Algernon accuses Jack of behaving as though he were already married to Gwendolen. He reminds Jack he isn’t yet engaged to her and says he doubts he ever will be. Surprised, Jack asks what Algernon means. **Algernon reminds Jack that Gwendolen is his first cousin and tells him that before he gives his consent to the union**, Jack “will have to clear up the whole question of Cecily.” Jack professes bewilderment and says he doesn’t know anyone named Cecily. By way of explanation, Algernon asks Lane to find “that cigarette case Mr. Worthing left in the smoking room the last time he dined here.”

The cigarette case, when it arrives, causes Jack some consternation and Algernon much glee. Jack seems to have forgotten that the case bears an inscription from “little Cecily” to “her dear Uncle Jack.” Algernon forces Jack to explain what the inscription means, and Jack admits his name isn’t really Ernest at all—it’s Jack. Algernon pretends to be incensed and disbelieving. He points out that Jack has always introduced himself as Ernest, that he answers to the name Ernest, that he even *looks-* as though his name were Ernest. He pulls out one of Jack’s visiting cards and shows him the name and address on it, saying he intends to keep the card as proof that Jack’s name is Ernest. With some embarrassment, Jack explains that his name is “Ernest in town and Jack in the country.”

**Algernon is still unsatisfied. He tells Jack he has always suspected him of being “a confirmed and secret Bunburyist,**” a term he refuses to define until **Jack explains why he goes by two completely different names, and he requests that the explanation be “improbable.”** Jack protests that his explanation is not improbable. He says the old gentleman who adopted him as a boy, Mr. Thomas Cardew, in his will made him guardian to his granddaughter, Miss Cecily Cardew, who lives on **Jack’s country estate with her governess**, Miss Prism, and addresses Jack as her uncle out of respect. Algernon slips in questions about the location of Jack’s estate, but Jack refuses to answer and continues with his explanation.

**Jack says that anyone placed in the position of legal guardian must have moral views about everything**, and since the utmost morality doesn’t bring great happiness, he has always pretended to have a troublesome younger brother named Ernest who lives at the Albany Hotel and who frequently gets in trouble. **This false brother gives Jack an excuse to go to town whenever he wants to.**

**Algernon counters by telling Jack a secret of his own. Just as Jack has invented a younger brother so as to be able to escape to London**, Algernon has invented a friend called **Bunbury**, a permanent invalid whose sudden and frequent relapses afford him a chance to get away to the country whenever he wants. **Bunbury’s illness, for instance, will allow Algernon to have dinner with Jack that evening, despite the fact that he has been committed, for over a week, to dining at Lady Bracknell’s**. Algernon wants to explain the rules of “Bunburying” to Jack, but Jack denies being a “Bunburyist.” **He says if Gwendolen accepts his marriage proposal he plans to kill off his imaginary brother**, and that he’s thinking of doing so in any case because **Cecily is taking too much interest in Ernest**. Jack suggests that Algernon do the same with Bunbury. While the two men argue about the uses and merits of a married man’s “knowing Bunbury,” **Lady Bracknell and Gwendolen are announced.**

### Act 2

In the garden of **The Manor House**, Jack’s country estate in Hertfordshire, Miss Prism is trying to interest Cecily in her German lesson. **Cecily would prefer to water the flowers**, but Miss Prism reminds Cecily that Jack encourages Cecily to improve herself in every way. Cecily expresses some slight irritation with the fact that her Uncle Jack is so serious, and Miss Prism reminds her of his constant concern over his troublesome brother Ernest. Cecily, who has begun writing in her diary, **says she wishes Jack would allow Ernest to visit them sometime. She suggests that she and Miss Prism might positively influence him,** but Miss Prism doesn’t approve of the notion of trying to turn “bad people into good people.” She tells Cecily to put away her diary and to rely on her memory instead. Cecily points out that memory is usually inaccurate and also responsible for excessively long, three-volume novels. **Miss Prism tells her not to criticize those long novels, as she once wrote one herself.**

**Dr. Chasuble, the local vicar, enters.** Cecily tells Dr. Chasuble teasingly that Miss Prism has a headache and should take a walk with him, **obviously aware of an unspoken attraction between Dr. Chasuble and Miss Prism**. Miss Prism reproaches Cecily gently for fibbing, but **she decides to take Cecily’s advice,** and she and Dr. Chasuble go off together. The butler, Merriman, then enters and announces to Cecily that **Mr. Ernest Worthing has just driven over from the station with his luggage**. Merriman presents Cecily with a visiting card, which is the one Algernon took from Jack in Act I.

The visiting **Mr. Ernest Worthing is actually Algernon, masquerading as Jack’s nonexistent brother, who enters dressed to the nines and greets Cecily as his “little cousin.”** When Cecily tells him Jack won’t be back until Monday, **Algernon pretends surprise and disappointment**. Cecily tells Algernon that **Jack has gone to town to buy Ernest some traveling clothes,** as he plans on sending him to Australia as a last resort. **Algernon proposes another plan: he thinks Cecily should reform him**. Cecily says she doesn’t have time. Algernon decides to reform himself that afternoon, adding that he is hungry, and he and Cecily flirt with each other as they head into the house to find sustenance.

Miss Prism and Dr. Chasuble return from their walk, also flirting mildly. **They are surprised when Jack enters from the back of the garden dressed in full Victorian mourning regalia**. Jack greets Miss Prism with an air of tragedy and explains he has returned earlier than expected owing to the death of Ernest. **Miss Prism and Dr. Chasuble express surprise, shock, and condolences, and Miss Prism makes a few moralistic pronouncements.**

Jack’s story matches the one he and Algernon cooked up the previous evening: that Ernest passed away in Paris from a “severe chill.” Dr. Chasuble suggests that he might mention the sad news in next Sunday’s service and begins talking about his upcoming sermon. **Jack remembers the problem of Gwendolen and his name, and he asks Dr. Chasuble about the possibility of being christened Ernest.** They make arrangements for a ceremony that afternoon. As Dr. Chasuble prepares to leave, **Cecily emerges from the house with the news that “Uncle Jack’s brother” has turned up and is in the dining room.**

The moral status of Jack’s fictional brother Ernest has undergone a change between Acts I and II. At Algernon’s flat in Half Moon Street, **Algernon called Ernest merely “profligate.” Jack explained that Ernest got into “scrapes,” or mischief**. In the garden of the Manor House, where Miss Prism’s moral viewpoint holds sway, Jack’s brother graduates to “unfortunate,” which **Miss Prism uses as a euphemism for “immoral,” “bad,” and downright “wicked,” the latter an adjective Cecily seems particularly to relish**. Indeed, when the descriptions of Ernest reach this low point, he becomes all the more appealing to Cecily. T**he idea of wickedness fascinates Cecily, and she yearns to meet a “really wicked” person.** This open interest in the idea of immorality is part of Cecily’s charm and what **makes her a suitable love interest for Algernon.** Cecily is no dandy: she doesn’t speak in epigrams and paradoxes, and, in fact, **she’s the only character who doesn’t talk like a character in *The Importance of Being Earnest.* She’s a moral eccentric.** She hopes Jack’s brother hasn’t been “pretending to be wicked and being really good all the time,” since that would be hypocrisy.

**The difference between hypocrisy and mere fiction, or “Bunburying,” begins to emerge when Jack enters and declares that Ernest is dead.** He is dressed in full Victorian mourning regalia, a very elaborate affair, creating the play’s most pungent visual gag. **Jack has gone overboard in carrying out the deception of his double life, and his behavior highlights the essential difference between hypocrisy and “Bunburying**.” Algernon imposes on Cecily by pretending to be someone he’s not, but he is still less malicious than Jack. First, **Algernon scarcely knows Cecily, and second, he isn’t actually leading a double life**. **Algernon has created a fictional friend, but he does not actually pretend to *be* that friend**. When he finally does take on a second identity, it is in the company of near-strangers. Jack, however, not only lies to the people closest to him, but he lies elaborately, becoming, for all his amiability, a lowlife. **Jack has a fundamental harmlessness to his attitude toward other people**. In a theater production, his deception is compounded: the audience watches an actor pretending to be someone pretending. Jack’s pretense seems almost never-ending.

**When Algernon appears in the doorway, Jack is furious, not only because Algernon is there, but also because he is disguised as Jack’s own invented**, and now presumably dead, brother. Cecily takes Jack’s anger as part of the long-standing ill feeling between the two brothers and insists that Jack shake hands with Algernon, who has evidently been telling her about his good offices toward his poor friend Bunbury. Jack is apoplectic at the idea of **Algernon talking to Cecily about Bunbury, but he can do nothing. He cannot expose Algernon without revealing his own deceptions and hypocrisy**, and so he has to go along with the charade.

**Jack wants Algernon to leave, but Algernon refuses as long as Jack is in mourning**. As Jack goes off to change his clothes, Algernon soliloquizes briefly about being in love with Cecily. **When she comes back to water the garden, he uses the opportunity to propose to her.** He is surprised to discover that Cecily already considers herself engaged to him and charmed when she reveals that her sustained fascination with “Uncle Jack’s brother” had moved her, some months previously, to invent an elaborate romance between herself and Ernest. **Cecily has created an entire relationship, complete with love letters (written by herself), a ring, a broken engagement, and a reconciliation, and chronicled it in her diary.** Algernon is less enchanted with the news that part of Cecily’s interest in him derives from the name Ernest, which, echoing Gwendolen, Cecily says “inspires absolute confidence.”

Algernon goes off in search of Dr. Chasuble to see about getting himself christened Ernest. Meanwhile, **Gwendolen arrives, having decided to pay an unexpected call at the Manor House.** She is shown into the garden. **Cecily, who has no idea who Gwendolen is or how she figures in Jack’s life, orders tea and attempts to play hostess**, while Gwendolen, having no idea who Cecily is, initially takes her to be a visitor at the Manor House. She is disconcerted to hear that Cecily is “Mr. Worthing’s ward,” as Ernest has never mentioned having a ward, and she confesses to not being thrilled by the news or by the fact that Cecily is very young and beautiful. **Cecily picks up on Gwendolen’s reference to “Ernest” and hastens to explain that her guardian is not Mr. *Ernest* Worthing** but his brother Jack. Gwendolen asks if she’s sure, and Cecily reassures her, adding that, in fact, she is engaged to be married to Ernest Worthing. Gwendolen points out that this is impossible as she herself is engaged to Ernest Worthing. The tea party degenerates into a kind of catfight in which the two women insult one another with utmost civility.

**Toward the climax of this confrontation, Jack and Algernon arrive, one after the other, each having separately made arrangements with Dr. Chasuble to be christened Ernest later that day.** Each of the young ladies takes great pleasure in pointing out that the other has been deceived: **Cecily informs Gwendolen that her fiancé is really named Jack and Gwendolen informs Cecily that hers is really called Algernon.** Shocked and angry, the two women demand to know where Jack’s brother Ernest is, since both of them are engaged to be married to him, and **Jack is forced to admit that he has no brother and that Ernest is a complete fiction**. Both women are furious. They retire to the house arm in arm, calling each other “sister.” **Alone, Jack and Algernon must sort out their differences.** Each taunts the other with having been found out and they end up squabbling over muffins and teacake.

The two major confrontations at the end of Act II, between Cecily and Gwendolen and between Jack and Algernon, are both rooted in the fictions all four characters have created, believed, or perpetuated. **Cecily and Gwendolen squabble over who has the right to consider herself engaged to Ernest Worthing** and seek to establish their respective claims on him by appealing to their diaries, in which each recorded the date of her engagement, as though the mere act of having written something down makes it fact. Meanwhile, what **they have recorded is fundamentally untrue**, since neither woman’s lover is the Ernest he has pretended to be. **Both women are fully in the right, but wrong at the same time.** Jack and Algernon, for their parts, **bicker over who is a better candidate to be christened with the name Ernest, an argument that is just as absurd and fiction-based as the women’s.** Jack argues that he never *was* christened, so he has a perfect right to be. Algernon counters by saying the fact that he’s survived the experience indicates that his “constitution can stand it.” He reminds Jack that Jack’s brother almost died this week from a chill, as though this damns Jack’s own constitution—while, of course, that brother is the fabricated Ernest. **These confrontations cannot and will not be decided, since their very subjects essentially do not exist.**

### Act 3

Cecily and Gwendolen have retreated to the drawing room of the Manor House to get away from Algernon and Jack. They are eager to forgive the men and be reconciled. When Algernon and Jack enter from the garden, Cecily and Gwendolen confront them about their motives. **Cecily asks Algernon why he pretended to be Jack’s brother, and Algernon says it was in order to meet her.** Gwendolen asks Jack if he pretended to have a brother so as to be able to come to London to see her as often as possible, and he asks if she can doubt it. **Gwendolen says she has the gravest doubts but intends to crush them.**

Cecily and Gwendolen are on the verge of forgiving Algernon and Jack when they remember that neither of them is any longer engaged to a man called Ernest. **Algernon and Jack explain that each has made arrangements to be rechristened Ernest before the day is out**, and the young women, bowled over by men’s “physical courage” and capacity for “self-sacrifice,” are won over.

As the couples embrace, Lady Bracknell enters, having bribed Gwendolen’s maid for information about her destination. On seeing Algernon, **she asks whether this house is the house where his friend Bunbury resides.** Algernon, forgetting momentarily that he is supposed to be at his friend’s bedside, says no, but quickly tries to cover himself and blurts that Bunbury is dead. He and Lady Bracknell briefly discuss Bunbury’s sudden demise. **Jack then introduces Cecily to Lady Bracknell**, and **Algernon announces their engagement**. Lady Bracknell asks about Cecily’s background, asking first, rather acidly, whether she is “connected with any of the larger railway stations in London.” Jack obligingly volunteers information about Cecily, answering Lady Bracknell’s presumptuous questions with a withering irony that goes over Lady Bracknell’s head. Her interest is greatly piqued when she learns that Cecily is actually worth a great deal of money and stands to inherit even more when she comes of age.

**Jack refuses to give his consent to Cecily’s marriage to Algernon until Lady Bracknell grants her consent to his union with Gwendolen**, but Lady Bracknell refuses. She summons Gwendolen to her side and prepares to depart. Before they can leave, however, **Dr. Chasuble arrives to announce that everything is ready for the christenings.** Jack explains that he and Algernon no longer need the christenings immediately and suggests that the ceremonies be postponed. The rector prepares to withdraw, explaining that Miss Prism is waiting for him back at the rectory. At the sound of Miss Prism’s name, Lady Bracknell starts. **She asks a number of incisive questions about Miss Prism then demands that she be sent for. Miss Prism herself arrives at that moment.**

**Just before Lady Bracknell begins her inquiry into Cecily’s background*,*** she makes a complicated pun that underscores the elaborate underpinnings of the joke of Victoria Station being Jack’s ancestral home. In Act I she exclaimed indignantly on the idea of allowing the well-bred Gwendolen “to marry into a cloakroom, and form an alliance with a parcel.” **Now she asks whether Cecily is “at all connected with any of the larger railway stations in London.”** The word *connection* was commonly used to refer to a person’s social milieu (his or her friends and associates) as well as to family background. **Lady Bracknell is making a joke on the fact that a railway station is as far back as Jack can trace his identity**. The word *connection* also refers to transport: a connection was where a person could transfer from one railway line to another. The joke is even more involved than that. When Lady Bracknell says, “I had no idea that there were any families or persons whose origin was a Terminus,” she is punning on the fact that in England, in Wilde’s day as well as now, a “terminus” is the last stop on a railway line, and the first stop is its “origin.” In calling Victoria Station Jack’s family’s “origin,” Lady Bracknell is getting off a very good line indeed, one that manages to be, like the joke in the title of the play, both pun and paradox.

##  Vocabulary

*Links, expression, utils, pdf and other material relevant with questions.*