# Django Urls

**Tags:** #django-urls #django-routing #django-views

**Inspired by**
- [..]()

**Links**
- [Django Urls Docs](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.0/topics/http/urls/)

## Content

To design URLs for an app, you create a Python module informally called a URLconf (URL configuration). This module is pure Python code and is a mapping between URL path expressions to Python functions (your views).

This mapping can be as short or as long as needed. It can reference other mappings. And, because it’s pure Python code, it can be constructed dynamically.

A URL pattern is the general form of a URL - for example: `/newsarchive/<year>/<month>/`.

A clean, elegant URL scheme is an important detail in a high-quality web application. Django lets you design URLs however you want, with no framework limitations.



### How Django processes a request

When a user requests a page from your Django-powered site, this is the algorithm the system follows to determine which Python code to execute:

1. Django determines the root URLconf module to use. Ordinarily, this is the value of the ROOT_URLCONF setting, but if the incoming HttpRequest object has a urlconf attribute (set by middleware), its value will be used in place of the ROOT_URLCONF setting.
2. Django loads that Python module and looks for the variable urlpatterns. This should be a sequence of django.urls.path() and/or django.urls.re_path() instances.
3. Django runs through each URL pattern, in order, and stops at the first one that matches the requested URL, matching against path_info.
4. Once one of the URL patterns matches, Django imports and calls the given view, which is a Python function (or a class-based view). The view gets passed the following arguments:
   - An instance of HttpRequest.
   - If the matched URL pattern contained no named groups, then the matches from the regular expression are provided as positional arguments.
   - The keyword arguments are made up of any named parts matched by the path expression that are provided, overridden by any arguments specified in the optional kwargs argument to django.urls.path() or django.urls.re_path().
5. If no URL pattern matches, or if an exception is raised during any point in this process, Django invokes an appropriate error-handling view. See Error handling below.