# JSON data

**Tags:** #json #data

**Inspired by**
- [Objects and arrays](20220517162919_javascript-objects.md)

**Links**
- [JSON Eloquent](https://eloquentjavascript.net/04_data.html#h_AxpOdvCznQ)
- [JSON Code](../first-splash/json.js)

## Content

If you want to save data in a file for later or send it to another computer over the network, you have to somehow convert these tangles of memory addresses to a description that can be stored or sent. You could send over your entire computer memory along with the address of the value you’re interested in, I suppose, but that doesn’t seem like the best approach.

What we can do is serialize the data. That means it is converted into a flat description. A popular serialization format is called JSON (pronounced “Jason”), which stands for JavaScript Object Notation.

JSON looks similar to JavaScript’s way of writing arrays and objects, with a few restrictions. All property names have to be surrounded by double quotes, and only simple data expressions are allowed—no function calls, bindings, or anything that involves actual computation.

```javascript
{
    "name": Matias,
    "httpStatus": 200
}
```

### Datatypes

In json you have different datatypes like:

- numbers: Integers or floats.
  - 30
  - 30.1
- strings: Strings of characters.
  - "Hello World"
- boolean: True or false.
  - true
  - false
- arrays: Arrays of values.
  - [1, 2, 3]
  - [1, "Hello", 3]
- object: Key-value pairs.
  - {
      "name": "Matias",
      "httpStatus": 200
  }
- null: The absence of a value.
  - null

### Arrays

You could perform custom arrays and transform it to send a lot of data using JSON files. For example, you could create a list of people and send it to a server.

```javascript
const people = [
    {
        "name": "Matias",
        "httpStatus": 200
    },
    {
        "name": "John",
        "httpStatus": 200
    }
];

let jsonPeople = JSON.stringify(people);
```

### Json with HTTPs

[Live server Code](../http-json-fs/http-json.js)

Live server is node module that can be used to create a server that can be used to send data to a client. You could request as a client and receive the data. You could also send data to other server. 

To get data from other system JS has a method called `fetch`. It's useful to get data from `RESTful` API that uses different data storage to get and find data. `MongoDB` is a good example of document json storage. It's also useful to configure a system like a `package.json` file from node environment.

```javascript
fetch("https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users")
    .then(response => response.json())
    .then(json => console.log(json));
```

