# Object Oriented Programming

Tags: #oop #javascript

**Inspired by**
- [Javascript Definition](20220517161029_javascript-definition.md)

**Links**   
- [Is JavaScript Object oriented?](https://linuxhint.com/is-javascript-object-oriented/)
- [MDN Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Objects/Object-oriented_programming#oop_and_javascript)
- [Intro to OOP](https://medium.com/swlh/intro-to-object-oriented-programming-in-javascript-fe90c70ab316)
- [OOP Code](../first-splash/oop.js)

## Content

### OOP in JavaScript

The use of the word extends indicates that this class shouldn’t be directly based on the default Object prototype but on some other class. This is called the superclass. The derived class is the subclass.

Inheritance allows us to build slightly different data types from existing data types with relatively little work. It is a fundamental part of the object-oriented tradition, alongside encapsulation and polymorphism. But while the latter two are now generally regarded as wonderful ideas, inheritance is more controversial.

Whereas encapsulation and polymorphism can be used to separate pieces of code from each other, reducing the tangledness of the overall program, inheritance fundamentally ties classes together, creating more tangle. When inheriting from a class, you usually have to know more about how it works than when simply using it. Inheritance can be a useful tool, and I use it now and then in my own programs, but it shouldn’t be the first tool you reach for, and you probably shouldn’t actively go looking for opportunities to construct class hierarchies (family trees of classes).

### Core idea OOP

The core idea in object-oriented programming is to divide programs into smaller pieces and make each piece responsible for managing its own state.

When we talk about [OOP](../../notion/20220517163213_poo.md) in JavaScript there is no class.Actually it is a prototype based programming. In this programming style, the object encapsulates the properties, i.e., its methods and data, instead of a class. You can add new properties to this object at any time.

The core concept in oop is:

* __Clase__: Una clase define las características de un objeto. Es el template donde se definen las _propiedades_ y _métodos_ que van a tener las instancias de esa clase. Una _clase_ es algo abstracto, representa algo pero no _es_ ese algo, hasta que se instancie. Por ejemplo: la _clase_ Empleados, representa a los empleados, pero no es ninguno en particular.
* __Objeto__ : _Instancia_ de una clase. Es cuando usamos la abstraccion de la clase para _Crear_ (instanciar) un objeto. Siguiendo el ejemplo de _Empleados_, podriamos instanciar un objeto _Jorge_(instancia) que _es un_ Empleado (clase).
* __Atributos__: Características que tiene la clase, por ejemplo, en Empleados, puede ser: _nombre_, _apellido_, _salario_, etc...
* __Método__ : Es el comportamiento de la clase, en general son funciones. Por ejemplo, en empleados un método puede ser: _cobrarSueldo()_, o _trabajar()_.
* __Herencia__: Una clase (subclase) puede _heredar_ de otra clase (superclase). Esto quiere decir que extiende a la superclase, es decir que tiene todas las propiedades y métodos de ella y que además tiene otros atributos o métodos particulares. Por ejemplo, la clase _Manager_ puede heredar de _Empleado_ y tener un método nuevo: _darOrdenes()_.
* __Abstracción__: Es el principio básico bajo el cuál diseñamos las clases, básicamente _abstraemos_ un conjunto de objetos con sus atributos y métodos. Esto nos da la posibilidad de pensar un problema desde un nivel más alto.
* __Encapsulamiento__: Es la capacidad de poder agrupar propiedades y métodos en un entorno con límites bien definidos. De hecho las _clases_ son son otra cosa que _abstracciones_ __encapsuladas_ bajo un nombre en particular.
* __Polimorfismo__: Comportamientos diferentes, asociados a objetos distintos, pueden compartir el mismo nombre; al llamarlos por ese nombre se utilizará el comportamiento correspondiente al objeto que se esté usando.
* __Modularidad__: Se denomina "modularidad" a la propiedad que permite subdividir una aplicación en partes más pequeñas (llamadas módulos), cada una de las cuales debe ser tan independiente como sea posible de la aplicación en sí y de las restantes partes. Estos módulos se pueden compilar por separado, pero tienen conexiones con otros módulos.
* __Principio de ocultación__: Cada objeto está aislado del exterior, es un módulo natural, y cada tipo de objeto expone una "interfaz" a otros objetos que especifica cómo pueden interactuar con los objetos de la clase.

### Prototypes

In every single object you have a great ancestral prototype, the entity behind almost all objects, Object.prototype. The prototype relations of JavaScript objects form a tree-shaped structure, and at the root of this structure sits Object.prototype. It provides a few methods that show up in all objects, such as toString, which converts an object to a string representation.

That is how to method on one object that is able to delegate to another object is called [prototype delegation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/prototype).

```javascript
const obj = {
  toString: function() {
    return 'Hello World';
  }
};
```

### Classes 

It's a layer in the prototype chain, which is a chain of objects that all have a prototype property pointing to the next object in the chain. The last object in the chain is the root object, which is Object.prototype.

A class defines the shape of a type of object—what methods and properties it has. Such an object is called an instance of the class. Prototypes are useful for defining properties for which all instances of a class share the same value, such as methods. 

Constructors (all functions, in fact) automatically get a property named prototype, which by default holds a plain, empty object that derives from Object.prototype. You can overwrite it with a new object if you want. Or you can add properties to the existing object, as the example does.

```javascript
class Workshop{
    constructor(name){
        this.name = name;
    }
    toString(){
        return `Workshop ${this.name}`;
    }
}
```

### Relfexion and Extends

THe reflexion is the ability to examine an object and see what it has. The extends is the ability to create a new object based on an existing object.

> '_' extends is a keyword in JavaScript that is used to create a new object based on an existing object.

Every js object has a method `hasOwnProperty` that can be used to check if a property is owned by the object or not. It doesn't follow the prototype chain.

```javascript
var person = {
    name: 'John',
    age: 30
}


var student = {
    class: 'A'
}

student.__proto__ = person;

for (var key in person){
 console.log( key + ":" + person[key] );
} // imprime todo! inclusive getNombre, que esta en su proto.

for(var key in student){
 if(student.hasOwnProperty(key)){
  console.log( key + ":" + student[key] );
 }// imprime solo las propiedades del objeto Student.
}
```

### Constructors and new

Consctructor, this and new was introduced in ES6. That is an abstraction of the object creation. The new keyword is used to create a new object. The constructor is a function that is used to create an object. The constructor is called with the new keyword.

> Adding functions in the constructor's prototype and not inside it is a good practice. __Because having methods replicated in each object takes up a lot of space__. Instead, if we have them in the proto, they all share the same.

```javascript
function Person(name, age){
    this.name = name;
    this.age = age;
}
const person = new Person('John', 30);
```

That function have the constructor in his own definition. When you invoke new Person('John', 30), the function is called with the new keyword. The new keyword creates a new object. The new object is returned by the function. The new object is assigned to the variable person.

When you create a new object using functions that are assigned to the prototype property of the constructor, the new object is created with the prototype of the function. The prototype property is a reference created as an object like `__proto__` in the language.

> Be very careful not to confuse the prototype property with the \_\_proto\_\_ of an object. It's not the same thing, prototype is just the name that, unfortunately, they chose for that property.

### OOP in JavaScript

JavaScript is not a class-based object-oriented language. But it still has ways of using object oriented programming ([OOP](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-javascript-implements-oop/)).

JavaScript is not an object-oriented language, it was not designed to be one, the notion of classes is absolutely not applicable to it. While everything in JS is indeed an object, these objects are different from the ones in Java or C#. In JS, an object is simply a Map data structure with a somewhat sophisticated lookup procedure. That is it, really. And when I say everything is an object, I mean it: even functions are objects.

However there is a special object, which does not have a prototype. This object is called the `base object`. This object is always at the end of the prototype chain, and ends there because `base object` does not have a prototype.

### Class based vs Prototype based

The most popular model of OOP is class-based. But as I mentioned, JavaScript isn't a classed-based langauge – it's is a prototype-based langauge.

> A prototype-based language has the notion of a prototypical object, an object used as a template from which to get the initial properties for a new object.

First, in class-based OOP, classes and objects are two separate constructs, and objects are always created as instances of classes. Also, there is a distinction between the feature used to define a class (the class syntax itself) and the feature used to instantiate an object (a constructor). In JavaScript, we can and often do create objects without any separate class definition, either using a function or an object literal. This can make working with objects much more lightweight than it is in classical OOP.

Second, although a prototype chain looks like an inheritance hierarchy and behaves like it in some ways, it's different in others. When a subclass is instantiated, a single object is created which combines properties defined in the subclass with properties defined further up the hierarchy. With prototyping, each level of the hierarchy is represented by a separate object, and they are linked together via the `__proto__` property. The prototype chain's behavior is less like inheritance and more like delegation. Delegation is a programming pattern where an object, when asked to perform a task, can perform the task itself or ask another object (its delegate) to perform the task on its behalf. In many ways, delegation is a more flexible way of combining objects than inheritance.

|Class-based (Java) |Prototype-based (JavaScript)|
|-------------------|----------------------------|
| Clases y Objetos son entidades distintas. | Todos los objetos pueden heredad de otro objeto.|
|Se define una clase con una definición de clase, y se instacia un objeto de esa clase usando un constructor | Se define y se crean objetos usando una función constructor.|
|Crea un nuevo objeto con el operador _new_ | Lo mismo.|
|Construye una jerarquía de clases, donde cada clase hereda de otras clases existentes. |Construye una jerarquía de objetos, donde cada objeto tiene asociado un prototipo con un constructor.|
|Los objetos heredan propiedades y métodos según la cadena de clases. | Los objetos heredan propiedades y métodos siguiente la cadena de prototipos.|
| La definición de una clase especifica _TODAS_ las propiedades y métodos de ella, no se pueden cambiar dinámicamente durante el _run time_. | Las funciones constructoras especifican una serie de propiedades y métodos _INICIALES_. Se pueden agregar o sacar propiedades y méetodos dinámicamente durante el _run time_.|


### Prototype-based and Class-based OOP have their advantages

In prototype based programming, there is no need to declare class as pre-planning about the sort of properties required before creating an object.Since no class needs to be made, you can create the object directly. This also offers flexibility; hence, any changes to the objects can easily and quickly be made while they’re being used.

While all these advantages exist in Prototype-based programming, there is a higher risk of incorrectness as abrupt changes can easily be made. Whereas in the Class-based approach, the blueprints layout a plan beforehand, decreasing the chances of bugs arising.

### ES6 Class keyword

With the release of ES6 in 2015, the long-awaited class keyword arrived in JavaScript. It was done as per numerous requests by the community because people were feeling uncomfortable coming from object-oriented languages. But they missed one important point.

> JavaScript is not an object-oriented language. It is a prototype-based language.

All of these issues can be mitigated with JS objects and prototype delegation. JS offers so much more that classes can ever do, yet most developers are blind to it. If you want to truly master JS, you need to embrace its philosophy and move away from dogmatic class-based thinking.

The class keyword starts a class declaration, which allows us to define a constructor and a set of methods all in a single place. Any number of methods may be written inside the declaration’s braces. The one named constructor is treated specially.

```javascript
class Empleado extends Persona {
 constructor (nombre, apellido, empleo, sueldo){
  super(nombre, apellido);
  this.empleo = empleo;
  this.sueldo = sueldo;
 }
}

var toni = new Empleado('Toni', 'Tralice', 'Profesor', 100);
toni.saludar();
```

Class declarations currently allow only methods—properties that hold functions—to be added to the prototype. This can be somewhat inconvenient when you want to save a non-function value in there.

### Encapsulation

Such program pieces are modeled using objects. Their interface consists of a specific set of methods and properties. Properties that are part of the interface are called public. The others, which outside code should not be touching, are called private.

In javascript programming language we don't have that aproach to define if a property is public or private instead javascript programmers sometimes uses an underscore to define it. Separating interface from implementation is a great idea. It is usually called encapsulation.

### Polymorphism

This is a simple instance of a powerful idea. When a piece of code is written to work with objects that have a certain interface—in this case, a toString method—any kind of object that happens to support this interface can be plugged into the code, and it will just work.

This technique is called polymorphism. Polymorphic code can work with values of different shapes, as long as they support the interface it expects.

### Inheritance

JavaScript’s prototype system makes it possible to create a new class, much like the old class, but with new definitions for some of its properties. The prototype for the new class derives from the old prototype but adds a new definition for, say, the set method.

In object-oriented programming terms, this is called inheritance. The new class inherits properties and behavior from the old class.

```javascript
class Rectangle extends Area{
    // Your new class inherits properties from the old
    constructor(value){
        super(value)
    }
}
```

#### Prototypal Inheritance

Javascript has properties and methods that are attached to the prototype of an object. This is called prototypal inheritance. When you need to access to a property or method of an object, you can use the prototype property of the object to find the property or method.

> The properties look like they're on the Object we're trying to access, but they're actually on _another_ object and are accessed through the __prototype chain__.

The bottom line here is that if we had a second object: `Object 2`, whose `proto` property refers to the _same object_ that the `proto` of `Object` did, then both objects would __share__ a subset of properties . In this case, if we wanted to access `Object2.property3` (which does not exist in object 2), we would find it by following the prototype chain, and access the same property as if we did `Object1.property3`.